Hi! My name is Nate McCullough on behalf of
expertvillage.com. In this clip we are going
to talk about one of the maintenance items
involved in a major tune-up or vehicle overhaul.
In this step we are going to talk about in
this clip is checking of your brake fluid.
Your brake fluid is going to be located in
a reservoir right here on top of the vehicle’s
master cylinder. It is generally located directly
through from the steering wheel. You are going
to want to take it and remove the cap and
look at the fluid level inside the car. Take
your finger and get a small sample. Take care
not to get this fluid anywhere. What you are
looking for on Dot 3 fluid is amber color
which is nice and clear. When adjusting the
fluid level if it happens to be low, when
it is low, you will notice that the red brake
light comes on. If it is low, you are going
to have to add fluid to it. Each vehicle takes
a specific kind of fluid. There are four kinds;
Dot 3, Dot 4, Dot 5 and Dot 6. Dot 6 is only
available for military purposes and you won’t
be able to buy it in the civilian world. Dot
3 covers the vast amount of the drive in public.
Any civilian type vehicles, anything that
is sold, GMC, Chevy or Ford are going to take
Dot 3. You do not want to mix these kinds
of fluids being that they have different hydraulic
standards they are manufactured to. Dot 4
is going to be listed in the same location
as Dot 3 and now Dot 5 is going to be located
in the same position as Dot 3. You are going
to want to read either the reservoir cap or
the master cylinder itself. Somewhere on there
it is going to indicate what type of fluid
it takes. This one takes Dot 3 and to fill
it up you don’t want to take it right up
to the top. You want to fill it up to about
a half inch before the top of the reservoir,
right there. Seem to have lost my cap here.
There we go. All right! That’s how you check
your brake fluid.